Well, good morning, Calvary.
So grateful to see you here in God's house together.
This is going to be a special weekend as we celebrate 40 years of Calvary Chapel as a church, a generation of Jesus followers.
And as all of our campuses join us to hear our origin story.
There's something significant about the number 40.
See, the Bible 40 is
the length of time of the generation.
We see this as we go through the journey of 1 Samuel, Eli, rain for 40 years, and then Samuel for 40, and then Saul for 40, and then David for 40, and then Solomon for 40.
We're going to take a pause from the book of 1 Samuel this weekend just to talk about the significance of that number 40 in the life of our church and the life of the people of God.
You're going to hear
our origin story.
If you're new to Calvary, then this is going to be the first time you've heard this origin story.
And if you've been here for a while, they're going to be part of the story that you probably didn't know because we've been left this beautiful legacy of the people who went before us.
And a legacy is just something that you leave to the next generation.
And sometimes that legacy, well, they're tangible things like the seat you're sitting in, the campus you're at, the building you're at, that was, it was prayed over and
invested in and paid for by a previous generation, and we have the benefit of that.
But it's not just the tangible parts of a legacy that spiritual fathers and mothers leave, there's the intangible.
You think about maybe what your parents left you as a legacy, not just the stuff, but that courage to take risks or the desire to pray when things were bigger than the resilience when things didn't go well, or that fear sense of hope like we need in this moment,
that was passed on to you to say, no matter what happens, I can look up.
And we've been given this incredible and tangible legacy, the spirit of the people of Calvary that believe deeply in the gospel, that go after the one that believe we are better together, that believe this idea of generosity brings joy.
This is the ethos, the DNA of the people of God that went before us.
And we have this beautiful benefit at this moment.
And so we're going to go on this 40-day journey together.
And it's gonna be a journey of prayer and a journey of generosity.
As you received this vision guide when you walked in at your campus, we're gonna ask you over these next 40 days to begin to pray.
What does it mean for me to invest in the vision of Calvary Chapel for the next 40 years?
And we'll talk more about that.
We're gonna go through this moment of prayer where we pray for the next 40 days, these prayer cards that are available at all of our campuses for you to pick up.
If you want a digital version of that,
Well, you can scan the QR code, the code that's on the screen behind me, or your campus, and you're gonna get those digital prayer cards.
There's gonna be prayer meetings that are gonna happen over these 40 days at your campuses.
There's gonna be a chance to watch the Jesus revolution, because that's part of our origin storage, and see how the gospel spread all over the nation, 40, 50, 60 years ago, and how it's come to us.
And so we're excited to be on this journey in our prayer to God.
Is God what you did in this first generation of Calvary?
Do it again.
So let's take a moment and pray and ask God to do it only He can do.
Let's pray together.
Father, we thank You for this powerful word that You give us in the Bible.
Remember that when we remember, when we look back, we don't just live in nostalgia, but we learn about the faith and the risk and the sacrifice
And the attitude that shaped the people who went before us, their faith in you, Jesus, and how they lived their life, and how that can cause us to live in a different way today.
So God, I pray that you would speak to us through your words, through your origin story of this place, and that we would be on this mission to make disciples with a whole new, passionate desire that you would awaken us to see the revival that's right in front of us, and that we would lean into that moment.
Let me pray this.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
You know, the story of God has always been bigger than us.
Sometimes in life, we make all that we read in the Bible about us, but we entered into a story that was already happening.
God is writing a story from the beginning of time and history all the way through this present moment and into the future, and we've been invited into this story.
And as we read the Bible, the Bible is not just one book.
The Bible is actually 66 different books.
66 different stories written by 40 authors over 1500 years, over three continents, and each of these individual books all tell the same story, pointing to the God who created everything, the God who went on mission, Father, Son, and Spirit to save us in our brokenness.
And now that story has come to us, and maybe you've never
wondered, like, how did the story of thousands of years ago get to us?
How is it that we're sitting here in church watching online and hearing a story that's thousands of years old?
Well, I want to tell you that origin story.
And to do that, I want to walk over to this bookshelf and I want to pull off the book of Psalms, one of the 66 books of the Bible.
And the Psalms talk about one generation declaring God's work to the next.
That there's this spiritual legacy that's passed from one generation to the next.
And one of those Psalms, Psalms 78, was written by the worship leader of Israel.
His name was Asaph.
And Asaph was passionate about teaching the people of God through song.
This is your story.
And so let's listen to the words of this 3000 year old song and let Asaph teach us how faith is passed
from one generation to the next.
He says, oh, my people, listen to my instructions.
Open your ears to what I'm saying, for I will speak to you in a parable.
I will teach you hidden lessons from our past, stories we have heard and known, stories our ancestors handed down to us.
We will not hide these truths from our children.
We will tell the next generation about the glorious deeds of the Lord, about His power and His mighty wonders.
For he issued his laws to Jacob.
He gave his instructions to Israel.
He commanded our ancestors to teach them to their children so the next generation might know them, even the children not yet born.
And they in turn will teach their own children.
So each generation should set its hope anew on God, not forgetting his glorious miracles and obeying his commands.
What is this worship leader of Israel teaching the people back then?
And what is he teaching us today?
That every generation has to set its hope anew in God.
It's not enough to know your grandparents or great grandparents or parents, how to faith in God, a faith in Jesus.
No, it's the responsibility of every generation to tell the stories, not to hide them.
This is how God saved me, how God drew me.
And ASAP says, this is a parable.
A parable is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning.
Every time you tell the story of what happened to you in life and how God met you and forgave you and saved you and put you on a mission, you tell a greater story of a God in heaven who's also on a mission.
And it's powerful to think about the idea this song came to us.
But how did it come to us?
I mean, this was written so
Long ago, well, as people faithfully told the story of God and taught the songs of God, well, this story came to a young man named John.
John was a young Jewish teenager, and he was waiting for the promise of Messiah, that God would send his own son, that God would come from heaven to earth.
And one day, well, John is hanging out with his friends and he hears about this man named Jesus.
And John asked Jesus, hey, where are you staying?
And Jesus says, come and see.
And John goes on this great adventure.
He leaves his father's business and begins to follow Jesus.
And he hears some of these moments that we still talk about today.
He wrote down this conversation that Jesus had with Nicodemus where Jesus said, God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son, that whoever believes him doesn't have to perish, but they can have everlasting life.
Jesus got to hear, or John got to hear Jesus say,
as the Father has sent me, now I send you, and you're gonna do greater things that I have done.
And in this world, you're gonna have trouble, but take heart, I have overcome the world.
And John experienced this life which he wrote it all down, and the last sentence of his story, of his gospel, the last sentence of his narrative of Jesus' life is one of my favorite lines in all the Bible.
At 90 years old,
John is the only disciple left.
And he reflects on all that Jesus had done and all that he saw people doing in and through the life of Jesus.
And he wrote this, and Jesus did many other things as well.
And if every one of them were written down, I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written.
It's like John is scratching his head going, man,
I remember this and I remember that and I've written out so much, but there's so much more to tell about what he did and the stories that would be written that the people who follow Jesus that put their faith in trust and would continue to tell that story.
There would be this unbroken relay between the gospel, the good news of God coming to the world and us.
And those stories that were written, well, there's another book of the Bible, another story.
It's called the book of Acts.
And the book of Acts describes ordinary people filled with the Spirit of God who did what they did in a way that changed the world forever.
You see, Jesus didn't just teach His disciples.
He didn't just give them this great commission, go and make disciples, go baptize people in the name of the Father, Son, the Spirit, and teach them to obey everything I've commanded.
He told them to wait in Jerusalem so they could receive power, Acts 1 8.
Jesus said, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be by witnesses in Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth.
How do these first Christians have the courage to speak into a world that would curse them and persecute them and martyr them?
They were filled with the Spirit of God.
Acts chapter 2 describes this moment.
They were praying.
They were huddled in Jerusalem.
All of a sudden, the sound of a mighty rushing wind and tongues of fire over their heads.
And they spoke in languages that shared the gospel of all languages all around Jerusalem.
And then Peter stands up.
Peter, the guy who just weeks before denied, he even knew who Jesus was.
Peter stands up and he tells the story that Asaph was talking about.
The story of David, the story of the prophets, the story of God's faithfulness.
Talking about how one generation to the next was looking for Messiah, and then he says, in that Jesus, he has come, but he was crucified, but death could not hold him, and he was raised from death to life, and if you repent and believe, well, here's what he says.
You can repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you'll receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
The promise is for you and your children, and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call.
And 3,000 people this day put their faith and trust in Jesus.
Can we just celebrate that moment in our history, our origin story?
That the first sermon by a fisherman
who was afraid to even say he knew who Jesus was, now stands in boldness, and 3,000 people respond in one day.
But here's the coolest part to me of this story.
This gift of God's spirit, this gift of the story he's entrusted to us, of the gospel, isn't just for the people Peter was preaching to.
Notice this promises for their children and their children after them and those who are far off, which means that promise has come,
to us.
Just let that sink in for a second.
The first sermon in the book of Acts has us in mind that this gospel story and the power of God's spirit working through ordinary people has come to us and it's our turn to pass our faith on to the next generation.
But now you might wonder, well, how did the gospel get to us from this moment?
And that would be a very good question, which brings me to my next book, my next story.
It's a story of church history.
And I want to tell this to you like story time with Uncle Doug, so let's sit down and have a conversation.
But have you ever been curious?
How did the Christian faith, this fierce hope in who Jesus is and the power of the resurrection?
How did it come to us?
Well, let's trace our origin story and let's see what we can discover.
In 34 A.D., Paul encounters Jesus on the road to the Damascus and his life is transformed.
In 48 AD, Paul begins his first missionary journey, taking the gospel to the world.
In 280 AD, churches begin to emerge in northern Italy.
In 596 AD, Augustine brings the gospel to England.
In 1517, Martin Luther posts his 95 theses on the church door at Wittenberg, and their reformation begins.
In 1735, John and Charles Wesley traveled from England to America to preach
the gospel.
In 1784, the Methodist Church flourishes through preachers who travel by horseback.
In 1886, the Parham family plants a church and a Bible college that will influence a man named Will Seymour.
In 1906, Seymour begins revival meetings in Los Angeles, resulting in the Azusa Street Revival, attracting an evangelist named Amy McPherson.
In 1923, McPherson helps found four square church and life Bible college.
In 1948, Chuck Smith graduates from life Bible college.
And in 1965, Chuck Smith begins pastoring a church of 25 people called Calvary Chapel in Costa Mesa, California.
We could celebrate that.
That's a, we're even closer to our, our own.
In 1968,
Smith partners with an 18-year-old evangelist Lonnie Frisbee in the Jesus movement is born.
Through the 1970s, hundreds of Calvary Chapel churches are planted across the United States, including Las Vegas, Nevada.
In 1980, Bob Coy begins attending Calvary Chapel Las Vegas and senses the call of God to plant a church in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
Yeah, and Bob and Diane moved there with Fidel and Theresa Gomez and their young family.
And here we go, in 1985, 40 years ago.
The first church service of Calvary Chapel Fort Lauderdale is held in a small hotel room with seven people in attendance.
You have got to be kidding me, right?
This is how the gospel got to us.
Now, to tell the story of the next 40 years, well, I don't want to read it to you.
I want you to watch it.
And I want you to watch it through the eyes of two of our original
founders and leaders of this church, Rod and Don Piercy.
Take a look at their story.
I grew up in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Early on, I got a real interest in music.
Music was everything in the 60s.
Getting ready to go into college, I had a really deep experience with the Lord and always found a way to be able to go and serve the Lord with my music.
Some friends of mine had already started Calvary Chapel Las Vegas.
One of the guys there was our founding pastor here at Calvary Chapel for Lauderdale, Bob Coy, and we both needed a roommate and so we moved in together.
Just a year later, Bob and Diane received the call from the Lord really to come out and start Calvary Chapel for Lauderdale.
I came to visit
They wanted to start doing some outreaches.
Back in 85, spring break was still huge for Lutterdale.
They rented a little community meeting room in Howard Johnson's, down on A1A, and called the recovery room.
And we would offer all the drunk kids free sandwiches in Walksa Guy, and he has actually got
a styrofoam cooler with the neck cut out on his head.
He's standing right in front of us as we're saying, praise the Lord, praise the Lord.
And we've got Mr. Styrofoam head right here in front of us.
So after Bob and Diane moved out here, my sister and brother-in-law were helping start a church in Southern California.
So I was traveling down to lead worship on the weekends.
My friend Bobby met Rod and just liked him right away when we met each other finally.
It's like, oh, it was not love at first sight, that was for sure.
I said, hey, I'll call you.
That's really how I got to learn who he is and falling in love with him over the phone.
Eventually he moved there and then he asked me to marry him.
It was really a fantastic time in our lives.
We were as happy as could be.
In 1995, I got a call from my brother-in-law, Clay Hecox, who had come to be the worship leader here at Calvary Chapel Fort Lauderdale.
And he said, the church has more than tripled in size.
I need help.
Would you finally consider coming?
Oh, no.
That's not for us.
We were
He was working, going to school.
He was working.
He was doing worship at the church that we were in.
We loved visiting, but there was never a desire to be here.
And so when we were asked, we were like, oh no, I don't think so, but we will pray about it.
There was really four big things, four big reasons where we thought.
No, we can't go.
And to make a very long story shorter, all four of those things God resolved within two weeks time.
At that point, Don and I looked at each other and said, uh-oh, we're going to Fort Lauderdale.
If I was really honest, I would have to say that there was this lack of the fulfillment of a call in my life.
And so when we got that call from Fort Lauderdale and got answered all four of those big things that we didn't think he would be answering, we realized for the first time together as a couple, God's calling in our life.
So when we came in 1995, we knew that the church had just experienced exponential growth.
That didn't stop.
that kept happening and kept happening.
It was just crazy.
It was like, you know, no matter what we did, people were coming, you know, and it just felt like, like,
God was just on the move and we were just trying to keep up.
When we had a big heart for outreach, we would do the stadium services.
That was an amazing thing when we first got here.
And we would just see people come from all walks of life, almost like a revival in some ways.
People in business suits, to bikers, people in flip flops and shorts just come out of the ocean.
We absolutely loved it because there was a freedom and an excitement for what God was going to do next.
I love this picture of you.
I don't know, it just makes me remember how, you know, you leading the show.
How good looking I was.
You were very good.
You liked the cowboys.
I do, yeah.
The beautiful thing that was happening was that people were confident that they were gonna hear the gospel if they brought their friends.
Now the stage was a lot lower in those days.
A much more intimate
environment where we really felt like we were part of those people's experience when they surrendered their heart to the Lord.
I love that that continues at our church today, that no matter who gives the invitation, if Doug gives the invitation or any one of our guest teachers, the spirit of the Lord has been upon us for all these years.
Being in ministry isn't always getting up
to the sound of worship music and having God speak a special song in your ear every day.
Don and I went through some very hard times and we wanted to run.
When there were times in my life where I felt like I had failed miserably, God spoke into my life and says, your giftings and your calling remained the same.
There were times in this ministry that we all went through some really deep dark
painful times.
It came to light that our founding pastor had fallen.
I was thrust into the presidency for our church.
I was president for five weeks and it was five excruciating weeks.
It was painful every step of the way.
God had me at that time for that season, for that reason.
We thought, this is the end of the ministry.
This is over.
It's going to crash and burn.
And it didn't.
God came through and gave us the leaders that we have now, gave us the church that we have now.
I really attribute that to the fact that Jesus called us deeply.
We served Him deeply and we will continue to.
Watching a person change from non-belief to belief, from being separated from God to being united with God.
Watching that moment is the miracle moment for me.
Our prayer is, God, please do it again.
Bring more people to you.
Bring more people to you in a way, Lord, where we feel like we're doing what the Bible calls the Great Commission.
That's what I think of when I hear God do it again.
It's been an amazing adventure.
He's got us on mountains.
He's got us in valleys.
And everywhere along the way, he meets us.
And I'm so thankful to be part
even in the challenges, even in the difficult times.
And so it's been really a beautiful thing.
And, you know, it's not over yet.
Journey's not over yet.
Still an adventure.
And we're looking forward to seeing what he does and how he does it.
We just want to be part.
One generation declares the works of God to the next.
They tell of his mighty deeds.
And the story of Calvary Chapel is not about all these perfect people who did all these perfect things.
It's about a faithful God that even when we fell, he picked this back up because this church belongs to him.
And we celebrate that.
And he's still working.
And so our prayer in this next season, well, it comes from this final book on the bookshelf,
It's the book of Habakkuk, a prophet who wanted to see God work, but was in the middle of crisis and chaos.
Mostly a moment like this where you're like, what's going to happen next?
I don't know.
In Habakkuk, well, he prayed this prayer as he wrestled with God.
He said, Lord, I've heard of your fame and I stand in awe of your deeds.
Lord, repeat them in our day, in our time, make
them known.
God, I've heard the stories of what you did back then.
I've heard of your fame, the way you did all these things for your people.
They've been passed on to me from the previous generation, but I don't want to just hear stories and live in nostalgia.
I want to see it with my own eyes, renew your powerful works in our day so I can see them with my own eyes.
God, do it again.
And this has become our prayer for this next season.
God placed this verse and this part of the story in my heart almost a year ago.
And I would wake up and I would look around and say, God, you've done some amazing things in our life in Suzanne and my life in our family.
You've done some amazing things in our church and in our campuses, but God, would you do it again?
What you did in the past do it in bigger and greater ways.
We want to see it with our own eyes.
And so I want that to be our anthem at all of our campuses, all that you know is Calvary Chapel.
I want us to every day wake up and say, Lord,
Do it again.
One generation commends the works of God to the next.
Our kids and the next generation needs to hear the stories of God's faithfulness.
So we're going to practice this today.
I'm going to say, Lord, and you're going to say, do it again.
Lord.
Now, here's the question.
What has he done?
Let's just take a moment and talk about what he's done.
Since those seven people met in that little hotel room 40 years ago, a generation ago, listen to this.
60,000 people have given their life to Jesus, made a decision to follow Jesus.
60,000, and that's the best we can count.
30,000 people have been baptized during that time, and we wanna celebrate that, and we wanna say, Lord, do it again.
Now, just show of hands, whatever campus you're at, wherever you're sitting, if you were saved here, you made a decision to follow Jesus, or you were baptized here at the church, I want you to raise your hand.
All right, everyone look around, guys.
It's a room full of people whose lives have been transformed by the gospel of Jesus.
And again, as we flash back, I want you just to watch these early pictures, these early stories of how he did it, starting in a funeral home and then eventually going to a school and then to an Albertson, right behind it, Albertson's in a little mall and then to Gateway and this passionate worship, this invite, my wife and I were invited to Calvary Chapel so many times,
stadium services and baptisms and people knowing the joy of life with Jesus, the relationship with Jesus changes everything, people spilling out into the streets and campuses being formed all across South Florida and missions being planted and we look at all those things and we're like, God, God, do it again and let that again be our prayer as its people and not just here but in the first generation of Calvary,
We saw all these people give their life to you.
In the first generation of Calvary, listen, we were able to plant 34 churches all around South Florida and all around the United States of America.
And that's a beautiful, a beautiful legacy to know that these churches, we can't even measure the impact of those churches and 24 churches globally.
So all around the world, 58 churches
are now meeting, sharing the gospel, doing all that stuff.
And we know that God wants to do even more.
So our prayer is God, do it again, not just that.
But because of the generosity of this church, this church has given $75 million to local outreach and global missions in its history in 40 years.
And we work with 130
one partners both here and around the world to bring the gospel, the good news of Jesus to those who are in desperate need.
And this again is the legacy, the intangible legacy that God has given us here at Calvary.
In the first generation of Calvary, we started a school called Calvary Christian Academy.
An idea that a school could be focused not just on great academics or great sports or STEM programs or arts, but making disciples, a focus on the mission that Jesus gave us.
And listen,
To this day, 2,527 students have graduated from this school as world changers, and we have seen four campuses of CCA emerge, and our prayer is, God, do it again.
But you know, before we started that school in the early 2000s, we hit pause on the idea of a school because there were kids in foster care, sleeping in office buildings.
And we said before we build a school for kids that have, let's find a home for kids that don't.
And so a ministry called For Kids began.
And it was this grand vision, a Christian home for every child.
And now years later,
6,300 kids have found homes in Christian families.
945 of them have been adopted permanently into those families, and over 2,000 have been reunited with their family as the churches come around those families, and we say, God, do it again.
In this first generation, God has done so much, but we are leaning in to God, what if you did even more in the next generation?
We just celebrated what God has done in 40 years, but I want to ask you this question.
What if Calvary Chapel was never planted?
What if those first few people never took those steps of faith?
What if when we needed a bigger building, people didn't pray or give or vision, they just said, eh, how would your life be different if Calvary Chapel didn't exist?
I mean,
I think of Suzanne and I, coming here in 1998.
I think of us, we were already Christians, we already knew Jesus, but we came here broken.
We came here after the death of our son.
We came here after a church that we're going to fell apart.
We're going through after all the things we poured our lives into for Jesus turned out
to all fall apart, and we just came here, and we just sat in worship, not at this property, but at the gateway property.
We just cried.
But there was something about the worship, the passion of the people, the teaching of God's word, the outwards that drew us in and healed us.
And every time we saw someone come forward, there was something that brought us back to life.
Suzanne and I came back to life because of Calvary Chapel.
And not just that.
Listen.
When the doctors told us you shouldn't try to have another child because there's a one in three chances child's gonna be born with all these disabilities and we came forward and prayed with two elders right over here named Ron and Jeff.
And we knew that God had healed our unborn child and Caden is now healthy today because of that moment right there because God answers prayers in this place.
And we're sitting right over there when the vision was cast for four kids
And we felt our hearts burn inside of our chest, and we knew God was calling us.
So our jobs, our family photo, the things that happened as we adopted two kids, all those things wouldn't be the same if it wasn't for a previous generation who said yes to God, and the work of God's Spirit through them.
This is the legacy that Suzanne and I have received.
And as you think, and as you imagine, like, oh God,
healed my marriage here or he healed my body here.
He broke an addiction in my life here through the people of God.
It's a beautiful, beautiful legacy to think about.
And as we think about the intangible legacy of faith and sacrifice and generosity, we also think about the tangible gifts that this previous generation has given us.
I mean, again, the seat you're sitting in, the building you're in, the online community, the VR room that you're in was all paid for by a previous generation.
Their prayers, their sacrifices, their vision have given us what we have.
And we don't want to be the people who don't think about that and just take it for granted.
And we want to feel the weight of it and go, well, if they've been given all this to us, then what do we do with it?
And so here's one of the coolest parts of this.
I mean, you think about all that Calvary Chapel is today.
And this summer, we paid off our mortgage so that everything that a Calvary Chapel has is debt-free.
It's been paid in full by the first generation.
And we celebrate.
God's faithfulness through His people.
So if you were part of that first generation, if you were part of those men and women with gray hair or no hair who've been here a long time and you've given your life and blood and sweat and tears and resources to make this happen, we want to say to you well done this first generation of God.
Can we celebrate those men and women who have allowed us to be in this space?
Ordinary people filled with the spirit of God.
who had this deep passion that people could come to know Jesus.
So what do we do with this?
Well, our mission is the same to make disciples.
Our vision is still broad to reach our community and to change our world.
And well, I want to tell you how this group of men and women in these early days took these steps of faith.
There would be a time where we'd be in a small group and then we needed more space and then we would
go into a funeral home and they would rent a school, and then that was full, and now we had to rent this little area in this little shopping center, and then we ran out of space there, and parking there, and then we went to Gateway, and pretty soon we ran out of parking there, and ran out of space there for kids, and you watch people pull in, then pull out because there's no place, and we're like, we can't have that, and at every stage, people continued to pray and give, and in 1996, well, this property in Fort Lauderdale came on the market, and listen, it was $22 million.
And you know how much Calvary Chapel had in the bank in 1996?
400,000.
Do the math.
I know the guy at Bank of America who heard the pitch that said, hey, we want to buy this property.
He laughed out loud.
Because what kind of crazy people try to buy a $22 million property with $400,000 to the bank?
I know.
People who know that God is in control and that he wants to raise people with the gospel.
And I want to show you one of the original visioners of this building in Fort Lauderdale.
This was a guy I don't even know standing on a box talking about vision of what this space could be in 1997.
Now, some people in that group, that guy's crazy.
There's no way that that's gonna turn into this.
But one generation tells the great work of God to the next generation.
It happened and beyond what we could imagine as people gave generously to see something that would reach thousands of people with the gospel of Jesus.
And not just here, but think about all the campuses that are part of this church family.
Look at plantation, the plantation campus before it's the building you're sitting in the plantation.
was just a field.
And they didn't have 400,000.
I said, hardly any money back.
They came on Saturdays with chainsaws and cut down trees just to clear the land.
People gave their own sweat and work because they believed that the mission of God was worth it.
And this is the incredible legacy that we have been given.
And we believe the time is now because in some of our campuses, we can't
Find enough spaces to park people.
There's not enough spaces for youth.
We've watched our aging facilities sort of get up.
We haven't done a vision campaign for over 20 years here at Calvary.
We've just enjoyed this goodness of God as people faithfully give their ties and offerings and this beautiful thing has happened.
But now we believe the time is now because even the events of this last week show us that the world is in desperate need of hope.
And I want to show you the signs of what I call
or what people are calling a quiet revival.
I'm gonna show you what the Barnard Research Group has found as they've asked this question over the decades.
The question is this, is a relationship with Jesus still important to you today?
And in 2010, it reached its peak, 77% of people in America said a relationship with Jesus is important to me today, but then this precipitous decline
to a right around COVID time where that dropped to 54% and prognosticators and theologians and pastors were worried, if this keeps going down, then Christianity and America is gonna be this dying thing and we're gonna end up like Europe, this post-Christian nation, except something unexpected happened after COVID.
It suddenly began to tick back up and now 66% of people say a relationship with Jesus is important to me today.
And do you know
Who is driving this quiet revival?
It's the young people in this country.
It's Gen Z and Gen Alpha who are saying, all the stuff I'm seeing, all the hate I'm seeing, all the division I'm seeing, all the things that be you, do yourself, follow your heart.
It's feeling so empty inside and I'm feeling the anxiousness and the depression of all this things that people are trying to sell me.
I'm gonna put this down and I'm gonna pick this up and I'm gonna see, is there something that God has for me?
And this is why we are
So passionate about saying that the time is now these plans that we are about to show you.
We've been laboring over and thinking over and praying over and we've had people look through surveys of buildings and most of these properties maybe you've never seen before.
Maybe you've only seen the campus that you're in but I want you to know you're part of something way bigger than what you see with your eyes.
So we wanna advocate for the vulnerable.
We wanna see God do it again for those who are in need.
We wanna raise the next generation.
We see this rising awake in young people to know the gospel.
And we wanna mobilize everyone in the church at every campus to say, I am on mission for Jesus.
I'm not gonna let the despair and anger and fear of the world paralyze me.
I'm gonna walk toward the mess.
I'm gonna walk toward the confidence of Jesus.
I'm not gonna fight evil with evil.
I'm gonna fight evil with good.
I'm gonna love my enemies.
I'm gonna pray for my neighbors.
I'm gonna go on mission for Jesus.
So as you see these projects, I want you to think about the mission that happens in these spaces.
So here at our Fort Lauderdale campus, we're looking for next-gen space.
Our issue is not parking or sanctuary space necessarily.
No, it's spaces for kids and youth to meet in small groups, to be discipled and sent out on mission.
It's a youth room on this
side of the property behind me and on our west campus, it's a warehouse that's being retrofitted as a student union of sorts of activities where youth can meet together, where they can do mission work together, where they can have time and space that's just for them.
Our west campus, the old Fort Lauderdale Christian School property, well we have a plan and a dream to start a 700 student
free K or K through third grade CCA, Calvary Christian Academy, to provide space for all of those young disciples of Jesus to come know him.
And this will become the permanent home of Calvary Chapel Española as our Spanish campus has grown so much.
There's not enough parking, there's not enough space.
I mean, the place there are is threatening to tow cars now because there's so many cars coming because we have such a large Hispanic population in this
region that needs to know Jesus.
And some want to hear the gospel in their own language.
And we want to see God do something powerful in that space.
And our plantation campus, well, you already know, parking and kidspace is a real challenge and we see that.
We don't want any cars to pull onto the property and pull off to say there's no space and room for me.
Same thing with our Boca campus.
Our Boca campus, we have very, very limited parking and kidspace.
The youth meet in portables.
And both the plantation campus and the Boca campus, we don't want to just build these spaces, these dreams for the campus.
We want to start two more Christian schools.
Again, Calvary Christian Academy schools, because our waiting list for this school is vast and people like, I want my kids to be discipled as Christians.
And this is an opportunity to do both of those things at our plantation and Boca campus.
Our West Boca campus?
Well, it's in the Sandalford community.
It's a very, very under-resourced community where kids, when they get off the bus, it's a very vulnerable space to go, is someone going to meet me at the bus stop?
Are there people in this neighborhood who have bad intentions?
Are there things that kids are going to get involved with?
And our birthday gift for Jesus started an after-school program, and we want to provide some spaces in the backyard there for those kids to meet?
We just hired the after-school coordinator and we can't wait to hear the stories of how in that neighborhood the gospel takes root in new ways.
And then in our Boynton Beach campus, while our youth are meeting in a preschool hallway, not an ideal environment for young people to have their own space.
We want our youth spaces to be the spaces where kids go, I want to invite my friends to this space because we're having this Bible study and it's the space that's inviting and we have the chance to do that.
in Boynton as well.
And then downtown Fort Lauderdale, we've been praying for a decade.
God, is there a space in downtown Fort Lauderdale where we can have another plant for the gospel that people can drive by this church and say, you know, I didn't know there was a church in that neighborhood.
Let me walk in and let me see what God is doing.
Listen, tens of thousands of people are moving into the downtown region of Fort Lauderdale and they don't know Jesus.
And we want to go after them with the gospel.
And then in Parkland and in North Lauderdale,
And in Pines, we're looking for permanent locations because when you rent spaces and parking lot is full and you're so limited to what you can do, and so we're praying God is there a space, a permanent location.
Just like we found these permanent locations for other campuses, God, would you do it again?
Would you provide in a supernatural way a space for the people of God to take ground in a world that desperately needs to know the love of Jesus?
And so we say, God, what you did in the past, God, do it again.
And this is,
Our prayer, but listen, when you look at all these projects, here's what I know.
You have a favorite, and the favorite is probably the one that affects you and your family.
But we, as a church, we want to go all together.
And we want to think not just about what benefits us,
Now, we want to start thinking about, well, what else do we do collectively that has an impact?
And I want to give you a couple of those.
One is Calvary House.
Calvary House is one of our most powerful ministries to the vulnerable men and women who find themselves broken in addiction and in need of discipleship.
And we're going to share more of their stories next weekend.
But I want you to know that there's need for transitional housing and a community center where they can break bread and eat meals together.
And so we want to invest in that ministry because God
has a heart for the vulnerable.
He has this great passion to go over those who are broken.
And we want to create community care centers throughout our county, throughout this region, where we have spaces where women and children who are in a vulnerable state, men and women who are lost and stuck in addiction can come and find the care, the Christian community in these spaces.
And so more to come on that.
Also, global projects.
Again, it's not just for here, reaching our community.
It's for there, changing our world.
And my wife and I, in the last couple of years, we've been to Cuba and Guatemala and El Salvador.
We've been to Peru.
We've seen these projects with our own eyes.
And I can't tell you, when you see an orphanage in Peru, when you see a compassion project in El Salvador, when you see a school in Colombia, and you're like, wow, the work of God through this church and church plants isn't just the churches.
It's the ministries, the kids.
It's the ministries to the poor and the vulnerable that sort of take your breath away.
And every time I see that I say, God, do it again.
God, what you did in the first 40, do again in greater and greater ways.
And so these global projects, well, you'll see them as we continue to move forward.
And then digital projects, listen, where are so many people looking for hope?
They're looking for hope right here.
We have a whole generation, sort of their brains are cute to go.
I have a question I'm gonna ask
Siri or Google or chat GPT, I'm gonna find out.
And if the church is not here, where people are looking, then we're gonna miss a generation.
So we wanna invest in digital discipleship, we wanna invest in working with you version to create these digital plants.
We wanna create digital missionaries who are on Instagram and all the platforms to bring the gospel to those who are looking for hope.
And so God, what you did in the first generation,
But we're going to tell those works to the next generation.
And we're going to pray this prayer.
God, do it again.
Now, I want to give you a picture.
You see, over these last several months, I've been talking to all of our original leaders.
I've been looking through files and pictures.
We've been collecting all these old videos.
And it's been such a fascinating thing.
But my favorite picture, the favorite picture of all the pictures I found is this picture right here.
It's a picture of Bob and Diane Coy, our original founders.
at that small little church in Las Vegas, and this small little church prays over this couple who were coming here with no job, no church, no place to live.
And I noticed this five-gallon bucket, the bottom left.
It says, gifts for Fort Lauderdale.
And so this little church took a collection.
So check this out.
Everything you know about Calvary Chapel, everything I just shared with you, all of it started in that bucket.
But that's sinking.
Like the little boy who brought his fishes and loves to Jesus.
I think there was a thousand dollars in that bucket.
All of this started with a thousand dollars in a five-year-old bucket and a people who prayed crazy prayers of faith.
It said there are people in South Florida who need to know Jesus and we don't know exactly how it's going to happen.
But today we are witnesses of how it happened.
God did this through ordinary people filled with the Spirit of God, who took extraordinary risks, who lived sacrificially and in generosity and in prayer and devoted their life to something bigger than themselves.
And we are benefits of that legacy.
Can we, again, thank God for the legacy of this place and His faithfulness through all of this time?
And so we asked the first question, what if Calvary never existed, then how would your life be different?
Now we wanna ask the opposite question, what if all of us took this moment that God has given us and the awakening that we're watching happen and said, God, what if you did it again through me?
And so we're inviting you to be a part of this vision journey with us.
As you came in, you received this vision guide that describes to you the different projects that describes to you ways you can be involved
And listen, as we think about all that's been done and all the construction projects, there's gonna be many of you who say, hey, not only do I wanna pray and not do what I wanna give, I'm a plumber, I'm an electrician, I'm a painter.
I can do flooring, and listen, over the years, as I talked to one of our original leaders, he said, you know, over the years, this building and the buildings before this, we received about $10 million of just in-kind donations where people said, hey, I can give you this at cost, I can provide this service for you,
I can pay this roof for you, I can lay this carpet for you, I can do this because I want to use my company and my skills to build the house of God wherever that house might be.
But we're inviting all of you on a journey over the next 40 days, pray.
God, what do you want to do through my sacrificial giving?
Now here's what I want you to know, this campaign itself when you look at the last page is $85 million over two years.
Now let that sink in.
$85 million, that's a lot of money done.
Listen, I want you to know this.
About 20% of people in this church tithe, two out of every 10.
And through that provision, God provides for us $30 million a year to run all of these things, right?
And so we want to celebrate that.
And so if the people of God continue to faithfully give the 30 million year one, 30 million year two, then that additional is $25 million.
And that's really what we're asking, what if
The other eight out of 10 began to go, you know what, I'm gonna begin to give because I see the work of God and because He's worth it and I wanna do something bigger than myself and you begin to go on this journey.
And as leaders, we've gone first.
As leaders, we've been meeting with our elders and our pastors and all of our board and our lead volunteers over the last several months and we've gone in first.
And I've been in conversations like this.
As Suzanne and I think about our personal giving.
I've heard people say, you know, not only am I going to give out of my income, I'm going to give out of my retirement, out of my reserves, because I want to invest in something.
I want to see a return on investment in a spiritual sense, not just in the stock market, not just in the portfolio.
I've heard people say, we're going to double our giving for two years.
I've heard all these things that have spurred my wife on and go, what if, and in about a dozen conversations, we continue to take steps of faith in our prayers and in our generosity, because we believe this
is worth doing.
We do not want to be the people who say, thank God for what those people did back then, and not feel the weight and the responsibility of what the next generation is going to need from the church.
And so I want to implore you.
Pray.
Think about how you might be involved.
Go on this 40-day prayer journey.
Starting tomorrow, we're gonna pray the same prayers at the same time, and we're gonna ask God, do it again.
Let's raise the next generation.
Let's reach the bone.
Let's let the church be mobilized for mission.
And then at the end of October, we're gonna bring our offerings at every campus.
And then in November 9th, we're gonna celebrate with a big birthday party, the faithfulness of God.
I wanna close with this verse.
This is a verse about the power of God working through the church generation after generation.
This is the story of us.
Now to him who is able to do and measurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations.
is our God.
He has done in his first generation, and measurably more than anyone could have ever imagined.
And he wants to do it generation from generation, and we say, God, do it again.
Let's pray.
Father, we thank you for your faithfulness.
It's not because of our skill or hard work or generosity or excellence that this has happened.
No, this is you at work, in and through your people.
And so, Father, we pray.
that in this next season, you would draw us to deep gratitude.
You would draw us and challenge us to deep moments of boldness and faith and generosity and prayer that we would go together in this next season.
We would leave not just a tangible legacy for the next generation, but this intangible legacy of men and women who went all in with Jesus, who said yes to Jesus.
God, do that in and through us.
We pray this in Christ's name.
Amen.
And so again, I'll ask you just to process if you pull this out.
And you look at the last page, you'll see an opportunity.
God, what am I actually praying about for these next two years?
And you'll have a chance to think about what this means for you.
And for those of you who've never given before, this will be your first step on the journey.
For those of you who are
You've been tithing the faithful.
You maybe you think about the next step.
For those you've been sacrificial, if you think about maybe giving a legacy gift that you've never thought about before.
I don't know what it means for you.
But if everyone does their part, as we've seen in the past, God will take that and he'll use it for his purposes then.
And then we're gonna put it in this bucket.
What God did in the past he wants to do again.
And I can't wait till that last week of October when we just bring our offerings, our gifts.
and we celebrate the faith on this of God.
I also wanna invite you to scan that QR code to go watch the Jesus revolution.
We're gonna be showing that here on October 10th and 11th.
If you've never watched what God did back then, that it would stir your faith for the present.
I wanna ask you go watch the Jesus revolution.
In the hallway, you're gonna have all these chances to see pictures and look at some of those old stories and then dream ahead about what the future looks like.
But yeah, again, I ask you to,
Go in this prayer journey with us.
Listen, we're opening this chapel every Tuesday for prayer all through the fall.
Every Tuesday night, 6.30 show up here, we're gonna pray.
We're gonna pray big prayers.
We're gonna pray for our broken world.
We're gonna pray that God would stir in us revival, awakening.
And so you can pray with us at home and you can pray with us as you come.
And finally, we wanna close in a song.
And this is a song that was written
as a prayer, the prayer of a backing, that God would do it again.
And we opened with a song by a man named Asaph, a worship leader, a 3,000 years ago, said, I want every father and mother to tell their kids what God has done.
Let this story of faith be a person, let it be a parable.
And so our team wrote this song 3,000 years later, it's the same as Asaph's song.
And a five-year-old named Beck, when he heard this song, he said, you know, some songs are like prayers that we sing.
And I thought, a five-year-old got this, that when we sing this song, we're singing a prayer to God.
God, what you have done, what you did in that first church, the power of your spirit, you want to do again.
So let's stand together.
Let's sing this song.
This song is our prayer.
This song will be our anthem for the season to come as we honor Jesus, our King.
Let's sing it together.
So like Pastor Doug said, we wrote a song to fill us with hope for the next generation for what God is going to do.
And so I want to take a moment to teach you guys the chorus already.
So it goes like this, right?
Come like a wildfire.
Come like a rushing wind.
Just like you did back then more.
I know you'll do it again.
your holy presence we need your power with it just like you did back then Lord I know you'll do it and do it again we'll try it together one more time come like a wildfire here you go come like a wildfire come like a rushing rain just like you did
You're powerful and then just like you did back then Lord, I know you do it and do it again.
Oh, here we go.
All of our faith in the God who sees.
You're turning the master piece.
A new generation will believe that you are a boy as he is and you are faithful.
And all of our faith in the God who speaks.
Hold into what you're promising and he's moving.
Just like you
what God has been doing through our church, the amount of people that have been saved by Jesus, the amount of bodies that have been raised to life with Christ.
We have a reason to celebrate, a reason to be filled with hope, and look forward to what God's gonna do next.
Amen?
Here we go.
See how many sinners saved?
How many bodies raised?
Look at those empty graves.
Yes, I know you'll do it again and again.
How many chains undone?
How many battles won?
He's only trust begun
with hope today.
And so as you leave, as you are dismissed, would you go out and grab a prayer card and join us as we pray over the next 40 days about what God could be doing in our heart and in our church?
Grab one on your way out.
If you need prayer for anything today, we'll have our prayer team right here at the front ready to pray with you.
But if not, have a great rest of your Sunday.
Go with Jesus.
See you next week.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word belief to 31352 so you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.